Course Code: COUN653
Title: COUN 653 Internship III *
URL: https://cityu.smartcatalogiq.com/en/2025-2026/2025-2026-catalog/course-descriptions/coun-counseling/600/coun-653
Credits: 3
Prerequisites: Successful completion of COUN 652 and approval of the training committee.

Description:
This is the third course in the Internship series (sequence COUN 651, 652, 653) throughout which students actively participate in a minimum of 600 total clinical hours which includes a minimum of 240 direct client contact hours of supervised experience. The student and site supervisor will design an internship contract that includes roles and responsibilities, schedule, supervision format and frequency, required staff meetings, and client contact arrangements. This contract will be conferred by the Director of Training prior to the student’s clinical work engagement. The student will carry professional liability insurance and abide by the ACA Code of Ethics. Students are expected to use and complete the forms included in the MAC Clinical Training Manual. At the conclusion of each quarter of internship, students are evaluated by the site supervisor. Methods of instruction primarily feature: in-class face-to-face learning in addition to the clinical site work.

Outcomes:
This course will prepare students to:
1. Recognize and apply professional ethical standards including clear and appropriate relationships with clients, colleagues, clinical settings, and the community.
2. Collaborate with people of diverse ethnicity, culture, gender, sexual orientation, physical ability, religious beliefs, and socioeconomic status.
3. Establish a commitment to professional development through continuing education, clinical supervision, self-reflection, and consultation with peers.
4. Establish and maintain effective counseling relationships, and employs counseling interventions that are consistent with the selected theoretical approach.
5. Gather information to assess needs and next steps in the counseling process, including assessment for suicide/homicide risk and reporting requirements for abuse/neglect.
6. Develop multicultural and social justice counseling competencies through gaining a systemic understanding for the influence of client cultural background in presenting problems and the role of counselors in promoting social justice and the well-being of the greater community.