Course Code: ECC535
Title: ECC 535 Level B Assessment Certification
URL: https://cityu.smartcatalogiq.com/en/2025-2026/2025-2026-catalog/course-descriptions/ecc-education-core-canada/500/ecc-535
Credits: 4
Prerequisites: None

Description:
*Individuals registered in this course need access to Level B assessments. Arrangements to borrow these assessments need to be made through school district staff; those who work outside of school districts need to be prepared to contact local agencies/districts to borrow these assessments. Students are introduced to a variety of psychometric assessments that are used to measure academic achievement and behavioural/social-emotional functioning that are relevant to Provincial School Districts. Students learn of the qualifications required to administer Level A, B, & C assessment.  Students explore the ethical considerations of psychometric assessment, and how to apply the fundamental statistical knowledge required to inform diagnostic decision-making and understand the results of assessments for educational programming and intervention. Students explore a variety of assessment tools, best practices for administration and scoring, and how to interpret information based on the assessment findings. Students gain an understanding of key considerations in sharing information gathered from Level B psychometric assessments and effectively communicating assessment results. Successful completion of this course qualifies participants to perform Level B assessments in Canadian schools.

Outcomes:
In this course, students:
1. Identify the similarities and difference between Level A, B, and C tests.
2. Identify the key concepts, measures, and psychometrics in assessment.
3. Describe the purpose for behavioural and academic screening and assessment within the Response to Intervention (RTI) model.
4. Evaluate assessment reports to facilitate informed choices with attention to the interpretation and recommendations.
5. Evaluate assessment results to develop appropriate case planning.
6. Evaluate legal and ethical considerations for testing as well as cultural factors and their impact on assessment results.