Course Code: EEA520
Title: EEA 520 Technology for School Leaders
URL: https://cityu.smartcatalogiq.com/en/2025-2026/2025-2026-catalog/course-descriptions/eea-educational-administration/500/eea-520
Credits: 3
Prerequisites: None

Description:
This course introduces candidates to technology literacy and applications in order to find, evaluate, and apply information to inform and improve student learning and teacher pedagogy.  Candidates use digital tools to gather, evaluate, and use information in order to plan and conduct quality research, manage projects, solve problems, and make informed decisions.  Applications include an electronic portfolio, instructional and curricular decisions, research and assessment, assistance to teachers, and the impact of technology on school and societal change.

Outcomes:
This course will prepare students to:
1. Program completers understand and demonstrate the capacity to collaboratively evaluate, develop, and communicate a school mission and vision designed to reflect a core set of values and priorities that include data use, technology, equity, diversity, digital citizenship, and community.
2. Program completers understand and demonstrate the capacity to lead improvement processes that include data use, design, implementation, and evaluation.
3. Program completers understand and demonstrate the capacity to reflect on, communicate about, cultivate, and model professional dispositions and norms (i.e., fairness, integrity, transparency, trust, digital citizenship, collaboration, perseverance, reflection, lifelong learning) that support the educational success and well-being of each student and adult.
4. Program completers understand and demonstrate the capacity to use data to evaluate, design, cultivate, and advocate for a supportive and inclusive school culture.
5. Program completers understand and can demonstrate the capacity to evaluate, develop, and implement high-quality, technologically rich curricula, programs, and other supports for academic and non-academic student programs.
6. Program completers understand and can demonstrate the capacity to evaluate, develop, and implement high-quality and equitable academic and non-academic instructional practices, resources, technologies, and services that support equity, digital literacy, and the school’s academic and non-academic systems.